# _Notes from the Underdark_

<figure class="image is-128x128"><img src="/_static/img/yvr.jpg" class="is-rounded" /></figure>

In the early part of the Summer of 2022 in Vancouver, Canada, a group of friends was chatting at
a beach party. We were all students (in one fashion or another) at a local school of theology. One
of our number was a veteran "DM" ([Dungeon Master](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dungeon_Master)),
and we were discussing Dungeons & Dragons.

I was a lifelong fantasy nerd, and had spent countless days playing fantasy role-playing video
games, like World of Warcraft. Because of how and where I grew up, however, I had largely missed
the Dungeons & Dragons wave. You see, back in the 80s and early 90s, when I was inclined to jump on
the various nerdy bandwagons like D&D or Magic: the Gathering, there was a whole cultural scare
wherein people thought that these hobbies were dangerous, deviant, or straight up demonic. As a kid
in an Evangelical Christian family living in the Bible Belt of the US, it wasn't really an option
for me to come home and tell my parents that I'd been playing these games.

More recently, in my adult life, I'd rediscovered some of these pursuits, and became an avid player
of Magic and an avid listener of D&D podcasts. In both cases, my mind was blown; what were people
worried about back in the 80s? No doubt it was _possible_ for D&D parties to craft objectionable
narratives, wallow in the imagination of doing evil things, and so on, but that was not at all what
the normal, everyday experience of playing D&D was like! Instead, it was all about creativity,
camaraderie, teamwork, imagination, and humour. I couldn't _wait_ to get into a campaign myself,
and even bought the D&D Starter Kit. I just didn't have any friends whose campaigns I could barge
into!

Fast forward to the beach party in Vancouver: as a group we realized that many of us had a similar
story with D&D---alway curious but never having gotten into it. So we beseeched the DM in our midst
to run a new campaign, and he agreed! We started to play in a world of the DM's own design called
_Qawz'mahautë_. It's not (as far as I know now as a player) related to the "standard" D&D realms,
but we are playing using the [basic 5th Edition
rules](https://dnd.wizards.com/what-is-dnd/basic-rules), with some world-specific adjustments.

When we began play, one of our party (who happened to be the editor of the theology school's
newspaper), suggested that we write synopses of our sessions so that others could follow along.
I volunteered to be our scribe, and titled the set of articles "Notes from the Underdark", which is
an obvious pun, and based on the location called the
[Underdark](https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Underdark), located in a popular D&D setting
(the continent of Faerûn). For now, the episodes posted to this site don't actually have anything
to do with the Underdark, since we're playing in an unrelated world. But who knows, as future
campaigns come along, that may change!

After a while of publishing the session stories in the school newspaper, I thought it would be fun
to share them with a wider audience. So, I built this site to host information about this first
campaign, and any that follow. I also decided it would be fun to trial a podcast version of the
stories as well. And here we are.

## About the author

<figure class="image is-128x128"><img src="/_static/img/jlipps.jpg" class="is-rounded" /></figure>

Hi, I'm [Jonathan Lipps](https://jlipps.com)! I'm your scribe for these adventures, but I am not
creating them all on my own. I'm not even the DM, so I don't really know what's going to happen
before it happens. I'm also only in charge of what my particular character is going to do, so the
real "author" of the stories is the entire group of us playing the campaign(s) together. That's
what makes D&D so fun---it's a collaborative storywriting experience! That being said, I'll try to
indicate if and when someone else wrote the actual words for something posted on this site.
Otherwise, you're stuck with me. Oh, and if you listen to the podcast? That's me, too, including
the music!

If that ends up not being too awful of an experience, you can always head on over to my
[website](https://jlipps.com) to learn about what I do in "real life" when I'm not failing to
produce a Scottish accent for my character. I've got links to other work, creative projects, etc...
Check it out!
