---
name: Champions of the Kydemones
campaignNum: 1
image: img/content/campaigns/champions-of-the-kydemones.jpg
---

This campaign takes place in the world of *Qawz'mahautë*. Since I'm not the DM, I don't know too
much about this world yet and it's not possible to give a comprehensive overview. My character Fenn
is learning as we go. But the DM did give us a nice picture of the general landscape. Here it is,
in more or less his words!

### Overview of Qawz'mahautë

In a land where gods and monsters prevail, humans must use everything at their disposal to muster
the strength to survive and thrive. Unable to attain magic by their own means, mortals must often
turn to the gods for the power and fortitude to protect themselves and make their way in a brutal
world. The old gods are willing to bestow potent supernatural gifts and access to their
otherworldly power in exchange for unwavering devotion, perpetual worship, and service. While the
worship of this Stygea Pantheon is in many ways one religion, there is much infighting, both in
myth and recent-history, over which god rules supreme or is most relevant.

In what seems like the distant-past to those living there now, small groups of humans were brought
to a new continent. Though many of the specific details are lost to them, both history and local
legends show it to be around that time that a new pantheon came into being: a whole hierarchy of
gods antithetical to the Stygea Pantheon, furnishing humanity with a set of codified guidelines
based around bettering the quality of life, harmonious living and the importance of disseminating
morality and knowledge, in contrast to the Stygean paradigm of simply gaining power. Recently,
followers of this new Pantheon of D'murge have begun to be granted powers akin to those given to
worshippers of Stygea, though on a much less widespread scale. Neither pantheon of gods are in the
habit of showing themselves visibly to their followers, but the gifts humans can acquire through
their worship keeps faith strong and many people devote their lives to learning more about the two
dichotomous sets of gods.

Though the gods may seem benevolent and willing to help humans prosper, there are many beings to be
found in the landscape who are not. Ancient and mostly beyond human understanding, species like the
Ashoni, Balimala, Dagana, Gnarla and Mahrem are but a few examples of sentient anthropoids that can
be found on this continent. Along with fully sentient species are a whole slew of monsters, many
associated with different deities of the old gods. These often keep to areas of wilderness, but
some can be found underground or have even been summoned from other planes of existence. The
continent is ancient, even if humanity can count their time there in but centuries. But most of all
it is a dangerous and largely inhospitable place for humanity.

### The Setting of the Campaign

Within Qawz'mahautë, and within the broad spectrum of adherents to the newer D'Murge religion,
there is a religious order called the Kydemones, which maintains an Academy in one of the major
cities in our starting region, called Nauem. The Academy primarily trains women, but will take
orphaned infant boys and raise them in the ways of the order. All such men are given the surname
"Kydemones", unless and until they marry and take their spouse's surname. All of our player
characters for this campaign have some tie to the Academy, and were either raised their or trained
there.

The campaign begins some distance away from Nauem at a Kydemones monastery called Highbury
Monastery, where Fenn, Evendur, and Orwin have been stationed. Rianne has just arrived from Nauem
with an urgent mission from the Academy...
